what does it take for Lily to get
airborne to find out lloyd and Rose have
enlisted the help of bird expert
Professor Graham Martin and high-speed
cameraman mark Payne Gil for a bird to
take to the air it has to overcome two
forces gravity the invisible pole that
keeps us grounded and drag which is the
resistance we experience as we move
through the air birds use their wings to
create lift and thrust but how do they
do it
birds wings are the shape of an airfoil
air traveling over the top of the wing
has to travel faster than air traveling
beneath
this creates a difference in air
pressure which generates lift to gain
forward momentum birds flap their wings
this makes the air flowing over them
spiral off the trailing edge these
vortices thrust the bird forwards and
upwards these are the basic principles
of all flight but what's so unique about
the white owls fly
we fight quite a few different types of
bird varying sizes yeah but the one
thing I notice about the Owls is they
always appear to be a lot slower than
their lines from the other birds well
all birds got different wing shapes and
they can fly at different speeds it's
just like aircraft so if you look at the
wing size of a barn owl it's actually
got a very big wing and so they can fly
very slow very controlled
to really understand the Barnell slow
flight Lloyd's putting Lily to the test
against two of his other birds
mazie the greylag goose a long-distance
endurance flyer and moses the peregrine
falcon one of the fastest birds on earth
the Peregrine takes the lead it's long
and pointed wings are quite flag
designed for speed and maneuverability
which it needs to hunt the goose is next
weighing three kilograms it's relatively
short and narrow wings work hard to get
it airborne
the bar now has the largest wings in
relation to its body and its airfoil is
very curved which generates a huge
amount of lift so the barn owl can fly
slower and with fewer wing beats than
most other birds
you